The exercise asked you to identify your top project,
among the six represented on the opportunity matrix.
For that project, you were to provide examples on how to
set expectations across each of the following four categories.
The potential project value to the business,
the likelihood of value capture,
the timing of value capture,
and any risks or potential blockers.
Based on our opportunity matrix from before,
my first project would be project 6, demand forecasting.
It may not bring as great of impact as projects 1 and 5,
and it may be slightly less feasible than projects 2 and 3.
But it's high likelihood of value capture,
along with relatively high feasibility and impact,
make it a good first project to establish enthusiasm from stakeholders,
and build momentum for other projects in the pipeline.
I will describe several areas for which I want to
set expectations for the demand forecasting project.
Please keep in mind that your own responses may differ from mine.
First, let's consider expectations to set
regarding the potential project value to the business.
This project may enhance the business's ability
to schedule production and manage inventory,
providing greater efficiency and lowering cost of production and inventory.
Next, let's consider likelihood of value capture.
This project is highly likely to deliver on its potential.
All necessary data is available,
nothing new needs to be collected.
Demand forecasting methods are many and well-known.
Now let's consider timing of value capture.
This project should start delivering value in the very near term.
Models can leverage historical data,
so no time needs to be spent waiting for new data to be collected.
Many forecasting models are available off the shelf,
so programming and model development should be relatively quick.
Finally, let's consider what risks and
potential blockers we should communicate to stakeholders.
This is an additive project,
current performance and functionality will not depend on a new model,
so there is not much risk of disruption to the business.
Data availability could end up being a blocker.
Additionally, changes in customer behavior over time could render forecasts invalid.